There are many functions in PyTorch that have the same function name as corresponding functions in NumPy,
and that behave mostly the same way, but have a data type of PyTorch tensors instead of numpy arrays.
So that's actually good because it means that as you are learning numpy, you can also transfer a lot
of those knowledge tidbits to PyTorch and vice versa.
Okay.
And so the focus of this video will be generating random numbers in PyTorch.
You will see that it's really similar to generating random numbers in numpy, which I introduced you
to a few sections ago.
So let's start with some Gaussian distributed random numbers.
So I will write torch.rand n.
The n is for normal distribution, and then I write four comma eight.
And this returns a four by eight matrix or in the parlance of PyTorch, this is a two dimensional tensor
of random numbers that are drawn from a Gaussian distribution with a mean of zero and a standard deviation
of one.
So I can use a method called mean, and that's going to give me the average of all 32 of these numbers.
And this is drawn from this sampled randomly from a population with a theoretical mean of zero.
So although in theory we'd expect the mean to be exactly zero, in practice it's never going to be exactly,
exactly zero because we are just randomly sampling.
So we can run this again.
You see sometimes it's a little bit higher than zero, sometimes it's a bit lower.
And also the standard deviation, sometimes it's going to be a little bit less than one, sometimes
a bit more than one.
But in general we expect this to be around one.
Okay.
Very nice.
So that is how you create random numbers in PyTorch.
Now for random integers, you can write torch.rand int.
And then let's say we want numbers between I don't know how about zero.
And what's your favorite number.
I think you said 17.
And okay so that is going to give us an error message because we have provided two inputs here the low
boundary, the lower bound and the upper bound for generating random numbers.
But PyTorch has no idea how many numbers we actually want.
So I will write size equals three.
And that also gives me an error, because I forgot that this is supposed to be a tuple of dimensions,
not just a single number.
Okay, so three comma.
And now I get an output of three random integers.
And we can try this again and again and again.
Now I can write three comma two.
Now we are going to get a three by two matrix or two dimensional tensor of random integers between and
including zero and 17.
By the way, you can also set the size to be for example w1 dot shape.
If you want to create a matrix of random numbers that has the same shape as some other variable that
is already defined.
Now I will create some linearly spaced numbers.
So torch dot linspace.
And this function works exactly like how the numpy version works.
So that was this.
You've learned before numpy dot linspace.
Now we have torch dot linspace.
The inputs are exactly the same.
The output numerical values are exactly the same as with the numpy version, but this is a torch tensor.
It's a PyTorch tensor instead of being a numpy array.
So it's just a different data type.
Let's call this variable Lynn's equals this thing.
Okay.
So now we have a vector Lynn's that goes from 0 to 9 in 43 steps.
Let's say we want to randomize the order of this set of numbers.
So we can do that using another random function called rand perm.
And this is going to randomly permute numbers from zero up to one less than whatever this number is.
So this is an exclusive upper bound.
And maybe I'll do this with ten.
So now you see we have the numbers 0123456789.
But they're all randomized.
So there's no repeats and there's no skips.
There's no misses.
And so I can keep running this code over and over again.
And I'm going to keep getting a random permutation of integers between 0 and 1 less than this number.
And what do we do with randperm instead of, for example, randint?
Well, the idea of randperm is you can use it to shuffle randomly the elements in a vector.
So I can write Linz.
Actually, let me do this.
Rand id x equals this.
And actually this needs to be the length of lens.
Okay.
Now I can write lens rand id.
So I am indexing this vector over here which is linearly spaced numbers from 0 to 9.
And I'm randomly resorting them.
So now we get eight and then 77.96 and so on.
These are no longer in order.
And if I run this code multiple times I'm going to keep getting different random shuffles.
I'll keep getting different results.
Because this number or this vector that's output by randperm is different every time I call it getting
randomly reshuffled.
Okay.
Now I want to show you one final thing.
I'm going to create a new variable lens multi.
The multi is for multi-dimensional lens dot Unsqueeze zero.
And let's see I'll print out lens dot shape and lens multi dot shape like this.
So this is review.
You've seen this before.
Here we have a one dimensional tensor of size 43.
Here lens multi.
This is a two dimensional tensor.
So the first dimension doesn't contain any thickness.
It's not really a matrix but it is technically a two dimensional tensor okay.
So now let's say we want to do something like this.
But I want to do this for lens multi.
So I want to randomly re resort the elements in lens multi using exactly the same procedure, same code
that I used here okay.
And here we get an error.
And why do we get an error.
Well what we are trying to do is index into the first dimension.
But the first dimension is only has one element in it.
And we are trying to access 23 elements in a dimension that only has one element.
So what we need to do is include a zero here.
And the zero here is because we are accessing the first element in the first dimension.
So this can get tricky.
You will often run into errors like this very often actually.
I also get quite a few errors like this.
So basically what you want to do is pay attention to the dimensionality of the tensor that you're working
with and however many dimensions there are, which means however many numbers are listed in dot shape,
that is however many elements you want to put when indexing.
So you can also think of it in terms of commas when you write dot shape.
If there is one comma in here, then when you index that variable, you also want to have one comma
in there.
So this zero corresponds to this dimension.
And then the random indices corresponds to this dimension.